[SPARK-47864][PYTHON][DOCS] Enhance "Installation" page to cover all installable options (#46096)
apache/spark: python/docs/source/getting_started/install.rst

- **memory-profiler**: Used for PySpark UDF memory profiling, ``spark.profile.show(...)`` and ``spark.sql.pyspark.udf.profiler``.

Note that PySpark requires Java 17 or later with ``JAVA_HOME`` properly set and refer to |downloading|_.

.. _optional-dependencies:

Optional dependencies
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

PySpark has several optional dependencies that enhance its functionality for specific modules.
These dependencies are only required for certain features and are not necessary for the basic functionality of PySpark.
If these optional dependencies are not installed, PySpark will function correctly for basic operations but will raise an ``ImportError``
when you try to use features that require these dependencies.

Spark Connect
^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Installable with ``pip install "pyspark[connect]"``.

========================== ================= ====================================================================
Package                    Supported version Note
========================== ================= ====================================================================
`pandas`                   >=1.4.4           Required for Spark Connect.

> `pyarrow`                  >=10.0.0          Crucial for data serialization and network communication efficiency.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`pyarrow`                  >=10.0.0          Used for data serialization and network communication efficiency.
```

Reviewer: Can we just say that `Required for Spark Connect` for all the dependencies here? The notes here look a bit inconsistent

Author: Sounds better. Let me update

> `grpcio`                   >=1.62.0          Necessary for implementing RPC functionalities in Spark Connect.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`grpcio`                   >=1.62.0          Used for implementing RPC functionalities in Spark Connect.
```

Installable with ``pip install "pyspark[sql]"``.

========= ================= ===============================================================
Package   Supported version Note
========= ================= ===============================================================
`pandas`  >=1.4.4           Used for pandas UDFs and ``DataFrame.toPandas``.
`pyarrow` >=10.0.0          For faster data conversion/transfer between PySpark and Pandas.
========= ================= ===============================================================

Pandas API on Spark
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Installable with ``pip install "pyspark[pandas_on_spark]"``.

========= ================= ===============================================================
Package   Supported version Note
========= ================= ===============================================================
`pandas`  >=1.4.4           Required for Pandas API on Spark.
`pyarrow` >=10.0.0          For faster data conversion/transfer between PySpark and pandas.
========= ================= ===============================================================

Additional libraries that enhance functionality but are not included in the installation packages:

> - **mlflow**: Enhances machine learning lifecycle management. Used for ``pyspark.pandas.mlflow``.

Reviewer: `Enhances machine learning lifecycle management` this sounds funny. refer to https://github.com/mlflow/mlflow

Author: Let me just simplify the context without verbose explanation.

- **plotly**: Provide advanced plotting capabilities for visualization.

> - **matplotlib**: Provide plotting, but **plotly** is recommended. The default is **plotly**.

Reviewer: Can you say `but **plotly** is recommended. The default is **plotly**.` at `**plotly**`?

Dependencies
------------

Required dependencies
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

PySpark requires the following dependencies.

========================== ========================= ============================================
Package                    Supported version         Note
========================== ========================= ============================================

> `py4j`                     >=0.10.9.7                Essential for Python to interface with the

Reviewer: Can we make the note simpler? e.g., Used to interact to JVM.

Author: Sure

                                                     Java objects in Spark; ensures seamless
                                                     interaction between Python and JVM.
========================== ========================= ============================================

Additional libraries that enhance functionality but are not included in the installation packages:

> - **memory-profiler**: Useful for diagnosing and analyzing memory usage in PySpark applications.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **memory-profiler**: Used for PySpark UDF memory profiling, ``spark.profile.show(...)`` and ``spark.sql.pyspark.udf.profiler``.
```

cc @xinrong-meng

Note that PySpark requires Java 17 or later with ``JAVA_HOME`` properly set and refer to |downloading|_.

.. _optional-dependencies:

Optional dependencies
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

PySpark has several optional dependencies that enhance its functionality for specific modules.
These dependencies are only required for certain features and are not necessary for the basic functionality of PySpark.
If these optional dependencies are not installed, PySpark will function correctly for basic operations but will raise an ``ImportError``
when you try to use features that require these dependencies.

Spark SQL
^^^^^^^^^

Installable with ``pip install "pyspark[sql]"``.

========= ================= ==================================================================
Package   Supported version Note
========= ================= ==================================================================
`pandas`  >=1.4.4           Enables seamless DataFrame operations between Spark and Pandas.

> `pyarrow` >=10.0.0          Optimizes data conversion and transfer between PySpark and Pandas.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`pyarrow` >=10.0.0          For faster data conversion/transfer between PySpark and pandas.
```

> `numpy`   >=1.21            Essential for numerical data manipulation within PySpark.

Reviewer: Let's remove this. This is really for pandas and PyArrow

========= ================= ==================================================================

Pandas API on Spark
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Installable with ``pip install "pyspark[pandas_on_spark]"``.

========= ================= =====================================================================
Package   Supported version Note
========= ================= =====================================================================

> `pandas`  >=1.4.4           Required for utilizing the Pandas API features in Spark.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`pandas`  >=1.4.4           Required for Pandas API on Spark
```

> `pyarrow` >=10.0.0          Ensures efficient data handling and performance in Pandas operations.

Reviewer: For faster data conversion/transfer between PySpark and pandas.

> `numpy`   >=1.21            Facilitates complex numerical operations within Spark.

Reviewer: ditto. we don't really need this.

========= ================= =====================================================================

Additional libraries that enhance functionality but are not included in the installation packages:

> - **mlflow**: Enhances machine learning lifecycle management, including experiment tracking and model deployment.

Reviewer: Mention which API it uses

> - **plotly, matplotlib**: Provide advanced plotting capabilities for visualization.

Reviewer: Let's list `plotly` and `matplotlib` separately, and mention which API we use, and say `plotly` is preferred.

> ML

Reviewer: Let's use the official name `MLLib DataFrame-based API`

^^

Installable with ``pip install "pyspark[ml]"``.

======= ================= =======================================================================
Package Supported version Note
======= ================= =======================================================================

> `numpy` >=1.21            Supports advanced data manipulation and algorithm implementation in ML.

Reviewer: Just say that it's "Required for MLLib DataFrame-based API"

======= ================= =======================================================================

Additional libraries that enhance functionality but are not included in the installation packages:

- **scipy**: Essential for scientific computing and statistical functions in ML.

> - **scikit-learn**: Required for implementing machine learning algorithms.

Reviewer: @WeichenXu123 and @zhengruifeng can you help writing better description?

Reviewer 2: I think we can use this description first.

MLlib
^^^^^

Installable with ``pip install "pyspark[mllib]"``.

======= ================= ====================================================================================================
Package Supported version Note
======= ================= ====================================================================================================

> `numpy` >=1.21            Essential for mathematical operations within MLlib, improves performance and accuracy of algorithms.

Reviewer: Required for MLLib

======= ================= ====================================================================================================

Additional libraries that enhance functionality but are not included in the installation packages:

> - **torch**: Utilized for machine learning model training on PySpark.

Reviewer: I think `torch`, `torchvision`, `torcheval` and `deepspeed` are for ML.

- **torchvision**: Supports image and video processing within PySpark models.
- **torcheval**: Facilitates model evaluation metrics in PySpark.

> - **deepspeed; sys_platform != 'darwin'**: Provides high-performance model training optimizations. Installable on non-Darwin systems.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **deepspeed**: Provides high-performance model training optimizations. Installable on non-Darwin systems.
```

Spark Connect
^^^^^^^^^^^^^

> Installable with ``pip install "pyspark[connect]"``.

Reviewer 3: Shall we move this section to the top?
Also, what's the difference between installing `pyspark[connect]` and `pyspark-connect`? Should we highlight the difference here, or add a documentation link to the pyspark-connect package?

Author: Moved the section to the top.

IIRC `pyspark-connect` is not yet officially supported by pip install so I don't mentioned for now. May can update the documentation when it's officially released. @HyukjinKwon could you double check if I understand correctly?

Reviewer: I already documented above. We should have the docs before releasing it out.
- `pyspark[connect]` with Jars
- `pyspark-connect` without jars.

========================== ================= ====================================================================
Package                    Supported version Note
========================== ================= ====================================================================

> `pandas`                   >=1.4.4           Facilitates DataFrame handling and manipulation.

Reviewer: Just say that Required for Spark Connect

`pyarrow`                  >=10.0.0          Crucial for data serialization and network communication efficiency.

> `numpy`                    >=1.21            Enhances data processing capabilities.

Reviewer: this too. no need to mention actually.

Dependencies
------------

Required dependencies
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

PySpark requires the following dependencies.

========================== ========================= ============================================
Package                    Supported version         Note
========================== ========================= ============================================
`py4j`                     >=0.10.9.7                Essential for Python to interface with the
                                                     Java objects in Spark; ensures seamless
                                                     interaction between Python and JVM.
========================== ========================= ============================================

Note that PySpark requires Java 17 or later with ``JAVA_HOME`` properly set and refer to |downloading|_.

.. _optional-dependencies:

Optional dependencies
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

> PySpark has several optional dependencies that enhance its functionality for specific modules. These dependencies are only required for certain features and are not necessary for the basic functionality of PySpark. If these optional dependencies are not installed, PySpark will function correctly for basic operations but will raise an ``ImportError`` when you try to use features that require these dependencies.

Reviewer: let's add some newlines

Author: Added!

========================== ========================= ======================================================

Note: Run ``pip install "pyspark[pandas_on_spark] plotly"`` if you want to use visualization features.

ML
^^

Installable with ``pip install "pyspark[ml]"``.

========================== ========================= ======================================================================================
Package                    Supported version         Note
========================== ========================= ======================================================================================
`numpy`                    >=1.21                    Supports advanced data manipulation and algorithm implementation in ML.
========================== ========================= ======================================================================================

MLlib
^^^^^

Installable with ``pip install "pyspark[mllib]"``.

========================== ========================= ======================================================================================
Package                    Supported version         Note

> ========================== ========================= ======================================================================================

Reviewer: Let's match the number of `=` to the text

Author: matched!
